----------

## Counting Uppercase and Lowercase Characters

You are going to write a program that takes a string and prints out two messages. One message tells you how many uppercase characters are in the string. The other message tells how many lowercase characters are in the string. The program will ignore all numbers and special characters (punctuation, symbols, etc.).

### String Methods

You will need two string methods that were not covered earlier to help with this project:
* `Character.isUpperCase()` - Returns `true` if the character is uppercase, `false` if the character is lowercase
* `Character.isLowerCase()` - Returns `true` if the character is lowercase, `false` if the character is uppercase

### Variables
You will need four variables for this project. One variable will count all of the lowercase characters, another to count the uppercase characters, a third to check each character of the string, and lastly a string variable.

```java
int lower_count = 0;
int upper_count = 0;
char ch;
String my_string = "Roses are Red, Violets are Blue";
```

### Iterating Over the String
The next thing to do is iterate over the string and to check each character of the string. A simple `for` loop works best.

```java
for (int i = 0; i < my_string.length(); i++) {
  ch = my_string.charAt(i);
}
```

### Checking for Uppercase and Lowercase
It does not matter if you check for an uppercase character first or check for a lowercase character. Let's start with lowercase characters. Ask if the character is lowercase and increment the appropriate counting variable.

```java
if (Character.isLowerCase(ch)) {
  lower_count += 1;
}
```

What you **do not** want to do is use an `else` statement. This will not give you an accurate count. For example, asking if a special character is lowercase will return `false`. However, that does not mean that it is an uppercase character either. Special characters are neither uppercase nor lowercase. So use an `else if` statement and ask if the character is uppercase. If so, increment the uppercase counting variable.

```java
else if (Character.isUpperCase(ch)) {
  upper_count += 1;
}
```

### Print the Results
The final step is to print the messages with the count values.

```java
System.out.println("There are " + lower_count + " lowercase characters.");
System.out.println("There are " + upper_count + " uppercase characters.");
```

{Try it}(sh .guides/bg.sh javac code/strings/Lab1.java java -cp code/strings/ Lab1 1)

There should be 4 uppercase characters and 21 lowercase characters.

<details>
  <summary><strong>Code</strong></summary>
  
  ```java
  int lower_count = 0;
  int upper_count = 0;
  char ch;
  String my_string = "Roses are Red, Violets are Blue";
  
  for (int i = 0; i < my_string.length(); i++) {
    ch = my_string.charAt(i);
    if (Character.isLowerCase(ch)) {
      lower_count += 1;
    }
    else if (Character.isUpperCase(ch)) {
      upper_count += 1;
    }
  }
                                         
  System.out.println("There are " + lower_count + " lowercase characters.");
  System.out.println("There are " + upper_count + " uppercase characters.");
  ```
  
</details>

{Check It!|assessment}(multiple-choice-2754293245)
